This is a complicated topic classification project. The setup inside R scripts is mirroring the ETL process - from data extraction, cleaning, logging in audit able, update, insert and move data from staging into production. Subsequently, data is used to power different products, e.g. Tableau, Google Data Studio, Excel spreadsheet. Data is extracted, cleaned and pushed back into Google Big Query. The first part "dailyStory" is to extract articles read by global audiences in the past 24 hours, whereas second part "dailyStoryBody_tm_load" is done on story level - we apply latent Dirichlet allocation (LDA) to extract topics from the stories. 

The first part is similar to building a "story fact" table, whereas the second part is similar to building a "story dim". Essentially, body for each story is extracted and cleaned from html into text/string. The goal of this project is to set up an ETL process to clean and store the data into a destination, so that everyone across teams (such as software engineers, ML scientists, content analysts) is invited to apply a different NLP to tackle different questions and extract insights from the same stories. In this case, we use LDA as an example for topic classification, but we can apply a different text mining algorithm such as TFIDF or conduct a sentiment analysis to suit a different purpose in mind.

This project is a good example of documenting ETL processing and text mining using the R language. In addition, we take advantage of first- and third-party data plus geolocational data. For example, we build dashboard using Google Data Studio to answer some interesting questions, such as what are Financial Advisors from Hong Kong, London and New York reading in the past 48 hours? What are the topics in common? What are the most trending topics to business professional working in Finance or Accounting industry in Germany vs. Japan? Using Poisson distribution, we can also build a topic trending alert, e.g. Bitcoin is being written and shared unusually frequent in London in the past 48 hours. 
